Well, because they've had to work on it, which is fine with me.
Well, no, my wife collects books and so forth.
But they actually have gotten better care here because, you know, you have no idea what a great asset is to have an expert in the family like my son because he can have them repaired.
and so forth, so there's a lot of benefit to me.
I don't know whether it's nice that you could have your folios for me.
It's been a very interesting experience, because this is my right idea, I want to be sure.
So we discovered certain things, sometimes good, sometimes bad, about the books.
It's an interesting experience.
But, you know, I guess I think some of the pleasure is simply the fact that you found something you were looking for, or if you had something that
You know, as one of my friends said one time, having somebody that nobody else has makes me feel.
I think that's a big, that's always a minor factor.
A minor factor?
Well, after all, if Jack Stinker comes to see me, there's no point in my showing him things that aren't as good as clothes he already has.
What is there?
I have to show him something that maybe he doesn't have.
Are you in here?
No.
I guess I'd like to just try once more if you have any thoughts at all about collecting in general and that concept of bibliomania.
I think you're in a unique position.
Yeah, but I think I'm already responding.
You see, I think the concept itself is a, well, I'll give you, you know,
What people do with books is such a variable thing.
Now, for example, you'll read stories.
You know, I quoted Darwin's statement.
When you read stories of people, for example, that they have books and they can't walk through the house, right?
All right, so it reaches a point where it makes no sense at all, right?
So then you can say there's something wrong with that guy.
The place is a mess, the whole thing, you know, the place is dirty and so forth, and the books are caught up there.
So that's not quite the same as having a different collection of, say, the collection that the garden of it had, which was an outstanding thing, obviously.
I mean, clean, precise, perfect.
There was only 315 items, too.
Yeah, but, you know, the tremendous difference, you know, between
what people do with books.
Now, it doesn't take a professional expert to come to a judgment on what makes sense and what doesn't.
You know, I used to say when I was first back in psychiatry that all I'd have to do was ask my children what they thought of so-and-so and they would pick up and disturb people.
It does not take an astute person
you know, necessarily.
So, you know, well, really, you know, when you take somebody, you know, I pick that example.
So a lot depends on, and I start to say there's a degree.
There's a difference.
For example, one of the most, I mentioned Herbert M. Evans, and I wrote about him.
Herbert, I have the pleasure and knowledge of meeting him.
Herbert M. Evans,
was a great biologist.
He discovered vitamin E, the growth hormone to a drain, any number of major discoveries.
And he also was a bibliophile.
And you've been, you know, break it down.
It's right in there.
I'll just remind myself of it.
So the reason I mention him is he was a pretty important influence in my
collecting in a negative way.
But the important thing with Evans is he started collecting early.
He had one of the most important exhibits of science books.
He was a pioneer.
Every time he got a divorce, he got in trouble finding out the other seller collections.
And then when he finally
So he made, in his lifetime, I think he made seven collections in history of science.
Well, toward the end, he said he got older.
He had this idiosyncrasy.
You know, he wouldn't pay his bills.
He bought more than he could afford.
So the only thing that could happen is, you know, when people started dubbing him, he had to sell his collection.
As soon as he sold the collection, he got some money, paid off his bill.
Then he fell all over again.
All right, so that doesn't make much sense, does it?
You said you knew him?
Yes, I knew him.
He was an old man, but he's become a guy who's a very important influence in my life.
But that story you can read.
But the point is, sorry, so that doesn't make sense.
Jake Zeitlin, who knew him better than anybody, or as well as I said, his appetite was bigger than his ability to pay for the book.
So that is another form of pathology.
So there's a difference between the guy that
The other ones couldn't really enjoy his collection, because he never paid attention to the financial aspect.
He developed poor credit at the end, you know.
Warren Howell and Jigs Island used to really bankroll him, and he'd build a collection, and they'd sell him.
But he was the pioneer collector, you know, in many ways.
So there's so many differences.
idiosyncrasy to get into.
That's why I say, you know, it's the same, you know, you can take the same story and you can say, well, you don't know, but take a guy like Donald Trump, for example, who has been collecting billions and billions.
Suddenly, you know, he's done something that sabotages him.
You don't know for sure.
But it could very easily be, see, well, you know, he's gotten involved with a woman, too, and so forth.
Well, Evans, I think, was a little bit on that story.
Now, so that's one form of pathology, right?
The other is the guy that hordes it all.
You know, some people, for example, you know, some people really... I've got it.
I want to just finish this line of thought right here when you look at some of the treasures.
I just want you to... I'd like you to finish what you're saying.
Well, I can't say that.
I don't know that I have much more to answer.
The reason I'm pointing out to you, I think it's really a carelessness to arrive at... I recognize that book collecting is not the same as scholarship, and there's always a certain amount of antagonism between scholars and
book collectors because particularly when it comes to manuscripts.
Because, you know, people that buy manuscripts don't necessarily always let them be used by themselves because they lose their manuals.
So, why don't you... Okay.
I might just shut these off right now.
Doctor, do you mind if I shoot a couple pictures of you while I'm here?
Oh, good.
I brought out a couple of interesting books from the Freud section.
This is a copy of Freud's book on aphasia, which he wrote in 1891 before he
when he was still thinking about himself as a neurologist.
And it's presented to one of his closest friends from that period, Dr. Wilhelm Fleece.
That's famous.
It's quite an association cut, isn't it?
Yes, it's a very interesting association.
Can I just take a picture?
Sure.
You're going to be in the catalog anyhow.
And then this is a copy of Freud and Breuer's work on the studies in hysteria, which was the landmark book in psychoanalysis.
And this actually belonged to Joseph Breuer's wife, Matilda.
These are pretty great books.
So you were interested in association copies as well.
Well, that was a very important aspect of my collection.
I think you're probably fine.
I wouldn't guess, but I'll bet you there are one-third of associations.
That's a good guess, I would think.
Why was that important to you as a collector?
I think because it added an extra dimension to the experience.
See, after all, the books themselves
exposure to the minds of the great pioneers, but the associations give you a glimpse into their biography.
So, for example, I'll say something about it if you want to look through, because you'll get a few more ideas, but that's the fact.
I'll explain that in a little more detail.
Why don't you go ahead and talk to somebody else.
Okay.
Dr. Norman is also collected extensively in the history of Mesmerism and the Greek Mesmer, Franz Mesmer, I'm sorry.
And this is a copy of Mesmer's book on sort of a manifesto of Mesmerism, which belonged to a society that's called the Society of Harmony, which was founded by his followers.
So Mesmer was really the beginning of psychopaths.
Is that the original binding, by the way?
It's a contemporary binding.
Yeah.
I mean, you probably know that books of this period were not often soul bound.
And then this is a copy of Darwin's Origin of Species.
And I brought this up because you probably also know this, but Darwin is
This book is famous for never having a presentation inscription in Darwin's hand.
All presentation copies, like this one actually, say, from the author in the publisher's hand.
You know, some secretary of the public.
But this one has this
sheet of paper laid in with an inscription in Darwin's hand which says you can paste this in your copy if you want to.
You have no idea how hard it went to me not to paste that in.
That's going to be in the book.
That is wonderful.
And what do we have here?
This is a copy of another important book in the history of psychiatry.
This is by Johann Bayer, who was one of the first to write about
demonic possession of mental illness rather than this, you know, demonic possession.
And this is the fifth edition.
It was bound for the great French collector Jacques de Tou.
This is his coat of arms and this is his cipher.
It's interesting because this is one of the few examples of a scientific book that's actually had a nice finding.
There's an important aspect about this book which I discovered through reading.
There's at least one that I think is applicable.
Can I have Dr. Newell holding the book here?
I'm just going to move these in the background because I love the background of these book pieces.
Look at these numbers, the number of shelf numbers.
Oh yeah, they look like they were written in the 19th century.
Can we get closer to those bookcases, perhaps?
It's just a wonderful background and epic.
It was an interesting story.
It was 1598 I read.
This particular man wrote this book.
was the president of the Parliament of Paris, and a mentally ill person was brought to his attention, and the issue was whether or not he was going to be burned in the state.
Well, apparently Meyer was a humanitarian, and he was the first person to make out against the inhumane treatment of people regardless of that.
So the owner of this book decided to
that meant he had sent to a hospital.
So I thought I'd say I think it was a copy of the book that influenced him now.
Of course, I can't prove it.
A copy of Harvey's book on the circulation of blood, and it's important.
This particular copy is important because it belongs to a
to Johann Friedrich Blumenbach, who was a German scholar and anthropologist.
And he's annotated it extensively here.
And there's actually a note here about how rare this book is.
And this note was made in the 18th century.
So it's interesting.
And it's also a signature here of a man named Constantine Huygens, who was the father of Christian Huygens, who discovered the rings of Saturn.
Yeah, it has good provenance, but unfortunately the plates are from another tradition, and this particular copy blocks its plates along the way.
But the association of, you know, the association is so important and interesting.
Bluenbach is also a big book collector that Jeremy actually acquired
a very large portion of Blumenbach's library several years ago, which was about ten years ago now.
Yeah, which had survived intact from the time it was sold in 1840 or something like that.
And it actually made the migration from Germany to Indiana or something like that.
Yeah, he talks about that.
Yeah, I will.
Are these among your favorite heist blocks?
But this is not a high-spot collection.
I think that's very important to point out.
Well, I'd say it's not, but it also is.
I wouldn't say that we have... You don't exclude high-spots, is what I'm saying, but I think it's a comprehensive collection.
Well, it's a comprehensive collection.
It's my taste.
Whatever that is, I decide what to do.
So we had a big thing about that.
He left it up to me.
I had to put in another thousand items.
Oh, this isn't the whole collection?
Well, the rest is not important, you know.
Here's the most important book I am.
The most important book I am.
Yeah, like plain art.
Yeah.
See, this is, I told you, you'll read about this also in the right.
This is a copy of the fabric of the Salier.
Of what I'm saying?
of the most important anatomy book.
And this is a copy that was given by the Emperor Charles V to a French ambassador.
It's a French ambassador.
Can you get a full picture?
Oh, well, could I get that with the color?
Yeah, I can't actually.
I really want you to collect it.
Now, I'm sure you know that this copy is dedicated now to the Emperor Charles V, in 1543, and it is thought, and we're pretty convinced, since it's the only copy like this in the world, that this is the copy that the author brought to the Emperor on publication of the book,
I'll just show you some of them.
Are these hand-colored?
These must be hand-colored.
They had to be hand-colored.
They had to be, because there was no color and gray.
These were old, too.
There's gilt work, and it's very important during the period.
When you see a modern anatomy book, the color of the flesh is not red like this.
It tends to be in the crowd, because they're dealing with cadavers.
In those days, they dealt with fresh specimens.
These were seeds that were hung and they dissected.
So the blood, they're all red.
These are all the muscle men.
Look at that they've been drawn.
This was the book I got instead of the Copernicus.
I think this is better.
Well, it's a matter of change.
I should have had both, of course.
That's the collector, you see.
No, no, but this is the book that makes that collection important.
Because, you know, in that period,
At that period, this is the beginning of science in the Western world.
Looking on a few more pages there.
All of the—even the letters you see are colored.
Oh, there's one other aspect that's important here.
The portrait.
Yeah.
I'm amazed this left the continent.
I wonder how this... Yeah.
This is the only portrait that can be identified as that of the author, which was done during his lifetime in his poem, so we have to assume that it's a fairly good rendition to be an ultimation point.
And binding is in purple velvet.
That's imperial coloring.
How is it possible that this became available?
How did this book become available to a private collector, I wonder?
Well, in the first place, I don't really know how the dealer got it, but if you can believe it, it was bought out of the catalog.
You bought it out of the catalog, but the dealer got it out of the catalog.
No, it was the other catalog.
See, timing was very important.
Harvey Cushing, who was a great collector of assailions, had died in 1939.
John Fulton, who was an associate, died a few years later, in 1960, I guess.
This book became available on the market in 1962.
And it actually happened.
The dealer who had told me about hernicas
After I lost the book and I wrote it, he said, don't worry, I'll get you another great book.
So about 1963, I think, he said, I found you a great book.
So I said, what is it?
You have all that in return.
So he told me that it's colored.
my friend said, don't buy a colored copy, because most woodcut books are colored by children.
So I wrote back to him and said, Mr. Howell thinks it's a mistake, but he's wrong.
So he agreed to hold the books.
So I believe in that.
They held it in Paris for about
I don't know, a month, because I couldn't go to Europe that right, that easily.
It was during the summertime, I guess, when we were going to go to Europe.
So they held the book, and I got—meantime, I did my homework.
I read up as much as I could on the salience.
So, you know, it didn't take five minutes for me to realize what was when I saw the book.
So I just said, yeah, of course, I said so.
They let me pay it off over a year.
That's nice.
Who was the dealer?
I think there were three people involved.
The main people were Thomas Shaler.
You'll have all of that.
There were two dealers in addition to Ernest Weil in England.
Weil was the person in London who held it for me.
I think he may have been a part.
I think there may have been three of them involved in it.
But it was a very productive trip for me, because I got to know these other fellows, and they sold me some good books, too.
You brought it back, or it was shipped?
It had to be shipped.
How did you feel when you added this to the collection?
How did I feel what?
Well, I mean, was it a sense of triumph?
Was it a sense of...
I don't know.
I mean, I was pleased.
I mean, you know, I'll tell you, I think I was very naive about football I can possess now.
One of my biggest problems was the idea that I assumed I was going to get whatever I wanted if I waited long enough when I was younger, you know.
You know, I didn't—I've not been the kind that—I didn't go nuts if I lost a boyfriend like that.
In fact, even occasionally other people have them.
But I felt, you know, I now had my great book, right?
So I came back, and suddenly I became an important collector.
I had an important book.
And really that brought me, more people came to see me because of that.
Because as it became known that it was unique,
It was amazing that nobody had gone before because there wasn't, you know... That's one of the joys of collecting.
Well, I said it's having something that nobody else had that gives you importance in the collecting world.
And because, you know, any, you know, at that time, it was not, you know, this was after all, almost 30 years ago, and a lot of these things would have
acquired because of my taste, really.
I mean, for example, as I told you, I was interested in history of psychiatry.
Well, I think in 1954, maybe, I got a copy of Freud's paper on cocaine inscribed by him.
That appealed to me because I'm not.
I have not encountered a thing before.
I wrote my paper for that sort of book at that time, and that remains an important influence.
I do think I probably have more.
You know, would you mind if I have any copies of the
I would love it, something like that.
Connie, can you think of anything you'd like to ask Dr. Bell?
Yeah, this is really wonderful.
So who are you going to see elsewhere?
I came to see you, Dr. Bell.
How am I going to be here?
Well, we're hoping that we write a book that will appeal to... Well, for example, one of the things I'm sure you and I both did,
A lot of the books I bought, I bought because the price was right, right?
You know, you get a bargain.
And I'll never forget when I suddenly discovered that that was the wrong thing to look for, you know.
That's right.
We all learned that lesson.
Yeah, well, I'd say that was a bookseller made that, you know, a bookseller.
They were responsible for that.
since I wasn't buying books that were worth thousands of dollars, you know, it wasn't a big issue.
But, for example, the years I was replacing books, you know, when I could, just to get a better copy.
Stepping up, right.
Because, you know, either they weren't available or I knew what I had with
Like, for example, in this panel, there are two copies of Freud's Interpretation of Dreams, but neither of them are the ones that I started with.
And the reason I say that is because it took several years for me to get the last copy.
And so, I mean, you know, it's an evolution.
That's why...
You know, it makes a difference.
And I was very pleased, of course, that I had it to put in there.
And I just mentioned that because of condition.
And I certainly didn't think of those matters for quite some time.
As a matter of luck, that copy that she showed you, that psychiatric book for 50 and 77, I had bought a copy of that.
the same book from the same dealer.
And a year or two later, he said, I have this other copy.
He said, you should buy it.
He said, the two copies.
Well, I really didn't know who the two was at that point, so I looked it up.
And I'm thinking, well, you know, you've been pretty good, so I should buy the book anyhow.
So I bought this as a duplicate copy, because I don't think proud of telling us until I made that judgment.
But that's how it started.
That's when we discovered there were special copies that maybe were interesting.
Now in science, there are very few, very difficult to find books that are in usually fine condition, especially beginning in the 19th, 20th century.
And certainly German and American books are relatively uninteresting as printing and paper and so forth.
But French are better.
So there aren't too many really great copies of science books.
They're not terribly interesting from collecting.
And Freud's are not either.
All of Freud's books were published in the original printed records.
So they're almost all re-bound, you see.
But they were used, as you point out, too.
Well, they were used, and not only that, there were 600 copies only, and some of them were cult, maybe, and so forth.
But the important thing is that they were printed on rather mediocre paper, and most 19th century German books are not that, especially in science.
I'm sure there are exceptions, you know, in the art area and so forth.
So getting good copies is a really difficult thing.
You said you taught a course in the history of class.
Where did you teach that course?
Oh, 30, 30.
The last time I taught history was about 1965.
But you taught it here?
Yeah, the University of California in Mount Vernon Hospital.
So I, I, I,
I really got too busy with other things in my profession.
Do you know anything about psychoanalysis?
No.
My wife knows where I am tonight.
He asked if we don't think about psychoanalysis.
I've been on the faculty of the Psychoanalysis Institute.
I'm a psychoanalyst.
In fact, I'm just retiring from it now.
So that was a very good time-consuming activity for me.
So I stopped teaching that and teaching other things.
Freud has come under some criticism recently.
Always been.
Do you still feel that most of his material, and I'm talking as a strict layman now, I'm just curious, but he has been, how do you, that's a general question.
You know, my opinion is very simple.
History will establish it.
I don't have to worry about it.
I think I've accepted what he presented as a valid and useful, but that doesn't mean that I don't think he was a crook, and some of the people are willing to say.
I think he did what he thought was, he gave what he thought was understandable and meaningful.
But in any science, we don't think he had the last word, and so I'm not terribly worried about it.
But honestly, I mean, I think that whatever happens a hundred years from now, it would depend on who else is able to evaluate.
Right now, you know, this is nitpicking, it's hard not concerned.
So, okay, maybe he didn't say this exactly the way his purpose of doing it, like one of the attacks on his case histories, he wasn't honest or something like that.
Well, he used them to illustrate some of his ideas.
And maybe you may have exaggerated, but that's not the point.
Most of us found these examples useful.
So, but to assume that, you know, they're the last word is nonsensical.
I don't feel terribly involved.
And most of these people that take issue have a history of being
critical for Freud.
I mean, look, there's an article on it in the New York Times somewhere.
There was some professor at MIT.
I think I saw that piece I'm thinking about.
Yeah, I think so.
And his greatest supporter was a professor here who we know is already critical.
He is.
So there's no reason why that shouldn't occur, you know, if you have different kinds of views.
The most important aspect is the way the judges will be made by people who do the work.
They can't be made by people who are historians or writers.
They can be made by the clinicians who build upon what Freud had to say and gain new experience and come up with new ideas and correct them or amplify them or change them.
You know, that's the way it works in science, so it has to be the same way with it.
Okay.
You've given very generously at your time, and I'm going to give you one of these tapes.
I'm going to give you this one, and I'll rewind it, because it has to start on A. Does that take two hours?
It takes an hour on each side.
Thank you.